# Backend - Node JS Libuv and source code 

   1. server :: is a software 
   it's listen to specific port (35000 more in device ) 

  1.1  nodeJS:: 
  As an asynchronous event-driven JavaScript runtime, Node.js is designed to build scalable network applications. In the following "hello world" example, many connections can be handled concurrently.
   Upon each connection, the callback is fired, but if there is no work to be done, Node.js will sleep.

  #  npm (node package manager ):
  






  1.2 LibUV(library )::  

  Overview
libuv is a multi-platform support library with a focus on asynchronous I/O. It was primarily developed for use by Node.js, but it’s also used by Luvit, Julia, uvloop, and others.

features::

Full-featured event loop backed by epoll, kqueue, IOCP, event ports.

Asynchronous TCP and UDP sockets

Asynchronous DNS resolution

Asynchronous file and file system operations

File system events

ANSI escape code controlled TTY

IPC with socket sharing, using Unix domain sockets or named pipes (Windows)

Child processes

Thread pool

Signal handling

High resolution clock

Threading and synchronization primitives






   2. Database ::



    3. API : 
    API stands for Application Programming Interface, which is a set of rules and protocols that allow software applications to communicate with each other: 

How APIs work

APIs act as a contract between two applications, defining how they communicate with each other. 
They allow products and services to communicate without the need to know how they are implemented. 

Benefits of APIs

APIs can simplify and speed up app development by allowing developers to integrate data and services from other applications. 
They can also help application owners share data and functions with departments within their organization, or with business partners and third parties. 

Security

APIs are considered safe because they include authorization credentials and an API gateway to limit access. 
Examples of APIs 
Language bindings: Map the features and capabilities of one language to an interface implemented in another language. 
Database APIs: Enable communication between an application and a database management system. 
Financial market APIs: Interface trading algorithms or models and an exchange's and/or broker's platform.

